


Bioinformatic Procedures and R Scripts for Manuscript “High-emission Socioeconomic Pathway Depresses Alkaline Phosphatase-Encoding (phoD-Harboring) Bacterial Communities in Cold Habitats”

The provided shell scripts include a Qiime2 pipeline for sequence data processing, compatible with any operating system that supports Qiime2. Additionally, the shell scripts feature a process for matching representative sequences against PCyCDB, which has been tested on Ubuntu 22.04.

All R scripts have been tested on R version 4.4.3.
	•	Filter_dominant_phylotypes.R: This script is used to identify the dominant phylotypes. The input data is an unrarefied OTU table generated by Qiime2. This dataset can be downloaded via this link.
	•	NMDS_and_db-RDA.R: This script performs Non-Metric Multidimensional Scaling (NMDS) and distance-based redundancy analysis (db-RDA). The input data (inputdada) is a 1000-sequence-per-sample rarefied OTU table generated by Qiime2. This dataset can also be downloaded via this link.
	•	acquire_env.R: This script is used to obtain soil data for each sample, using provided mean and standard deviation. Usage instructions are provided within the script.
	•	Random_forest & Semi-partial_Correlations.R: This script runs Random Forest models to identify the key factors influencing alpha diversity, NMDS scores, and dominant phylotypes. It also includes code for performing semi-partial correlation analysis. Environmental data used in this study can be found in Supplementary Table S2.
	•	randomforest_modeling_function_predictingClusterAbundance.R: This function is used to project the relative abundances of ecological clusters under future climatic conditions using a machine learning model
